<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
			

<div><h1>CHAPTER 18</h1></div>

<p>Soon they were speeding in a south-westerly direction, and
although Mrs Cody was not an entertaining hostess, the girl
found plenty to think about, and certainly did not resent the
silence of this over-dressed woman. In less than an hour the
car swung through a pair of heavy iron gates, up a long
avenue, and stopped before a medium-sized house.</p>

<p>Sybil had never met the stout and smiling man who came
to meet her.</p>

<p>“Ah! So this is the daughter of my old friend!” he said,
almost jovially. “Little Sybil! You don’t remember me, of
course?”</p>

<p>Sybil smiled.</p>

<p>“I’m afraid I don’t, Dr Cody,” she said.</p>

<p>“You wouldn’t, my dear, you wouldn’t.” His manner was
paternal, but Mrs Cody, who knew her husband much better
than most people, and who could detect his most subtle
nuances of tone, shot one cold, baleful glare in his direction
that was eloquent of her experience.</p>

<p>If Cody saw her, his manner certainly did not change. He
took the girl’s arm, much against her will, and led her into the
handsome library, fussing over her like an old hen with a chick.
She must have the best chair and a cushion for her back.</p>

<p>“Tea at once, my dear. You must be tired after your
journey.”</p>

<p>“I am,” said Mrs Cody emphatically. “I’d like a word with
you, C.”</p>

<p>“Certainly, my dear. Are you quite comfortable, Miss Lansdown?”</p>

<p>“Quite,” said the girl, finding it difficult not to smile as she
saw Mrs Cody flounce out with a red face and slam the door
behind her.</p>

<p>In the hall the chauffeur was lighting a cigarette. He glanced
round at the woman as she came out.</p>

<p>“Who’s she, aunty?” he asked.</p>

<p>Mrs Cody shrugged her ample shoulders.</p>

<p>“She’s the girl the old man was telling you about,” she said
shortly. “You ask too many questions; he’s been complainin’
about you.”</p>

<p>“I thought she was.” He ignored the complaint. “Not a
bad-looker. I’m surprised at you leaving them two alone!”</p>

<p>“Never mind what you’re surprised at,” she said tartly.
“Go and put that car in the garridge, and come and see me
when it’s done.”</p>

<p>“There’s plenty of time,” answered the dutiful nephew
coolly. “What’s the old man going to do?”</p>

<p>“How do I know?” she snapped.</p>

<p>But he was in no way abashed.</p>

<p>“Has she got the key?”</p>

<p>“Of course she hasn’t got the key, you fool!” she stormed.
“And don’t stand there asking me silly questions. And don’t
poke your nose into my business. And what do you know about
keys?”</p>

<p>Her nephew looked at her meditatively.</p>

<p>“You’re a queer couple, you and him,” he said. “But it’s no
business of mine. That girl’s certainly a good-looker. I’m going
through to the kitchen to have some tea. The old man’s given
cook and Mrs Hartley a holiday, and the maid’s away sick.
It’s rum that they should all be away together!”</p>

<p>He was strolling to the front door when he spoke, and now
he turned back.</p>

<p>“Got everybody out of the house.” He frowned. “What’s
the great idea, aunt?”</p>

<p>“Not so much ‘aunt’. I’m ‘missus’ to you, you gaol-bird!
I’ve told you about that before.” She was trembling with fury,
and he knew her well enough to realize that this was not a
moment to provoke her to further anger. For seven years (with
a pleasant interregnum) he had preserved the polite fiction of
being a pampered menial in the house of Mrs Cody. His wages
were good; he knew a little of the private affairs of the widow
whom Dr Cody had most unexpectedly married, and for the
consideration he received in the shape of a good bed, an excellent
allowance, plus the assistance he had in the garage, he
was quite willing to be blind to many curious happenings that
he had witnessed in that house.</p>

<p>He walked towards his aunt, his cigarette drooping from his
big mouth.</p>

<p>“What time am I taking that girl back to town?” he asked.</p>

<p>“She’s staying here; you needn’t bother.”</p>

<p>He looked down at the floor, up at the ceiling, everywhere
except at the woman, and then:</p>

<p>“Does she know she’s staying here?”</p>

<p>“Mind your own business.”</p>

<p>“This is my business for once,” he said obstinately. “I don’t
know who she is or what she is; if there’s any monkey game
going on, I’m not in it. I’ll have the car ready to take her back
in an hour.”</p>

<p>The woman did not answer him. She walked rapidly across
the hall and passed up the stairs out of sight. He waited till
she had disappeared from view on the landing, and then he
went out to the kitchen to his own tea and to meditate upon
the strangeness of life at Weald House and the queer fate
which, twelve years before, had turned his aunt from a household
drudge to a lady of fortune.</p>

<p>It was Mrs Cody who eventually brought in the tea, placed
it on the table, and immediately retired. Sybil saw nothing
strange in this, thinking that her host had something to say
which he did not wish to tell her before his wife. Three times
she had made an ineffectual attempt to bring the conversation
round to her father and the secret which Mr Cody had to
reveal, but on each occasion he skilfully led the talk in another
direction. But now, after a pretence of taking refreshment,
the girl brought the matter to a head by bluntly asking
what he had to tell.</p>

<p>“Well, young lady,” Mr Cody coughed, “it’s a very long
story, and I doubt if I can tell you everything in the time we
have. Would it not be an excellent idea if I got on to the telephone
to your dear mother and asked her to come down and
spend an evening with us?”</p>

<p>The girl looked at him in astonishment.</p>

<p>“I’m afraid that plan would not work. Mother and I are
going to a theatre tonight,” she said.</p>

<p>Sybil was ordinarily a very truthful person, but even very
truthful people may be permitted to invent excuses for avoiding
disagreeable experiences.</p>

<p>“May I not telephone and ask her?”</p>

<p>Knowing that her mother would not be back at the flat for
another hour, she agreed. He went out of the room and was
gone five minutes. When he returned, a broad smile suffused
his face and he was rubbing his hands.</p>

<p>“Excellent, excellent!” he said. “Your dear mother has
promised to come down this evening. I am sending the car for
her. She says she can exchange the theatre tickets for another
night.”</p>

<p>Sybil listened, petrified with amazement, and into her annoyed
amusement there crept a cold thread of fear. The man
was lying. The theatre engagement had been invented on the
spur of the moment, and her mother was not at the flat, she
well knew. Danger! As if a red light had flashed before her
eyes she saw it. There was some terrible peril threatening her,
and she must temporize.</p>

<p>“I’m so glad,” she said, with a calmness she did not feel.
And then, in an easy conversational voice: “You have a very
pretty house here, Mr Cody.”</p>

<p>“Yes, it is a gem,” he said complacently. “Would you like
to see over it? It has a remarkable history. Originally a dower
house, in the gift of a relative of yours—Lord Selford. I
leased it many years ago——”</p>

<p>“You know Mr Havelock, don’t you?” she said in surprise.</p>

<p>“Hum!” He fingered his chin. “No, I cannot say that I
know Mr Havelock very well. I have done business with him;
in fact, I once bought an Australian property from him. But
in the present case the house was leased to me through a third
person, and I very much doubt whether Mr Havelock is aware
that I am the leaseholder. Do you know him well?”</p>

<p>“Slightly,” she said. All the time her busy brain was working.
What should she do? She wanted an excuse for seeing the
grounds. A main road passed near the entrance lodge, and she
knew there was a village close at hand. Once she was on the
road, there would be sufficient excuses to take her into the
village and the protection which such a community would offer
her.</p>

<p>“You would like to see some of our rooms?”</p>

<p>“No, I don’t think so. I would like to see your grounds. I
thought I saw a bed of narcissi near the lodge,” she said,
and rose from her chair, her knees trembling.</p>

<p>“Hum!” said Mr Cody again. “Yes, it is a beautiful spot,
but the ground is rather damp for you.”</p>

<p>“I would like to go out,” she insisted.</p>

<p>“Very good. If you will wait till I have had my second cup
of tea.” He busied himself with the tray and the teapot. “By
the way, you haven’t finished yours, and it is cold. Shall I pour
you out another?”</p>

<p>“No, no, that will be sufficient, thank you.”</p>

<p>What a fool she had been! To accompany a strange woman—a
woman against whom every instinct warned her—to an
unknown house. Nobody knew whither she had gone.</p>

<p>She took the cup from him, steeling her nerves to steady her
hand, drank a little, and was grateful for the liquid, for her
mouth had become dry and her throat parched with the consciousness
of her position. It was not nice tea, she noticed,
there was a salty, metallic taste to it, and with a little grimace
she put down the cup.</p>

<p>“Thank you, that is enough,” she said.</p>

<p>Perhaps it was the acute tension of the moment which left
that queer after-taste in her mouth. She had noticed once before
in her life how sensitive the palate becomes in a crisis
of fear.</p>

<p>In one corner of the library was a small coat rack, and Mr
Cody went leisurely to get his cap. When he looked round,
Sybil was holding on to the edge of the table, her face white
as death, her eyes glazed. She tried to speak, but could not
form the words. And then, as he came to her, she collapsed in
his arms.</p>

<p>He half carried, half dragged her to the sofa, and putting a
cushion beneath her head, walked out of the library, locking
the door behind him.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
