<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
			

<div><h1>CHAPTER 33</h1></div>

<p>“The letters that Havelock showed me,” said Dick, as
they were driving back to town, “were, of course, written
by himself. I discovered that the day he showed me a message
that he said he had received that morning from Cairo. It was
written in green ink, and he had two specks of green ink on
the tip of his finger. I knew before that that he was deeply
involved in this case.”</p>

<p>“How did Cawler know that the big man was his brother?”
asked Sneed. “That puzzles me.”</p>

<p>Dick thought the matter over.</p>

<p>“He may have guessed for a long time,” he said. “He’s not
a bad fellow, Cawler, and I’m not going to repeat the story
he told me about the scientific use of a spanner. At present
the ‘locals’ think it was caused by the car in its fall, and I see
no reason in the world why I should undeceive them.”</p>

<p>“Is your young lady’s father a very rich man?” asked Sneed
innocently, but quailed before Dick Martin’s eye.</p>

<p>“Will you get it out of your head that Miss Sybil Lansdown
is my ‘young lady’ in any respect whatever. Although her
father was very rich at the time that document was written,
he was a poor man when he died.”</p>

<p>“The girl will be rich now, though,” said Sneed.</p>

<p>“Yes,” replied Dick shortly.</p>

<p>He had an uncomfortable feeling that the change in Sybil
Lansdown’s fortunes made a very considerable difference to
him. He had enough money to be acquitted of any charge of
fortune-hunting; but, as he argued, a girl with the immense
wealth of the Selfords at her command might well hesitate to
limit the possibilities of her future by .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</p>

<p>“Anyway, I haven’t spoken a word to her about that,” he
said, unconsciously answering his own thoughts.</p>

<p>But Inspector Sneed was sleeping peacefully in a corner of
the car and did not reply.</p>

<p>Dick went home and walked straight into his bedroom and
pulled open the door of the bureau where, one grisly night,
a silent figure had crouched.</p>

<p>“They’ve got him, Lew,” he said quietly, and closed the
door.</p>

<p>For, strange though it may sound, Dick’s heart was hottest
against Stalletti for this one crime.</p>

<p>He dressed himself with unusual care, rejecting this cravat
and selecting that, changing his shoes twice, and went back,
not once, but half a dozen times to his dressing-table, there
to manipulate a hair brush with delicate care; and at last,
feeling a little hot and uncomfortable, he took a cab and was
deposited at the door of 107, Coram Street. Passing up the
stairs, he pressed the bell of the apartment, and almost
immediately it was opened by Sybil; and the look of relief in
her face when she saw him was a great reward.</p>

<p>“Thank God, you’re safe,” she said in a low voice. “I know
that something dreadful has happened. I’ve only seen what was
in the early editions. Mr Havelock is arrested—how terrible!”</p>

<p>He nodded.</p>

<p>“Mother isn’t here,” she said, and dropped her eyes. “She
thought—she thought—perhaps—you would come, and that
you’d like——” She did not finish her sentence.</p>

<p>“And that I should like to see you alone? I think I should,
Sybil,” he said quietly. “Do you know you’re a very rich
woman?”</p>

<p>She looked at him incredulously.</p>

<p>“Lord Selford is dead. You are the heiress-at-law,” he stated
briefly, and then: “Is it going to make a big difference?”</p>

<p>“How?” she asked.</p>

<p>“I mean”—he was almost tongue-tied—“is it going to make
you think differently in—the way you think of me?”</p>

<p>“How do I think of you now?” she asked, with a return to
her old manner.</p>

<p>He pushed his fingers through his finely brushed hair.</p>

<p>“I don’t know,” he admitted lamely. And then a bright idea
occurred to him. “Would you like me to tell you what I think
of you?”</p>

<p>For answer she took him by the arm, led him into the
sitting-room and, closing the door, pushed him gently into
a chair.</p>

<p>“I should, very much,” she breathed, and sat on the arm of
the chair expectantly.</p>


		</section>
	</body>
</html>
