<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
			

<div><h1>CHAPTER 22</h1></div>

<p>Sneed came up at his call, and together the men searched
the room.</p>

<p>“Bloodstains on that door; did you notice them? Down
there at the bottom,” said Sneed, working his lamp along the
panel. “Fingerprints, and pretty distinct! Whoever it was, he
put his hand under the door and tried to lift it off its hinge—look
at the size of the prints! This was the gentleman who
visited you, Martin!”</p>

<p>Dick nodded.</p>

<p>“No other signs of violence. No blood on the floor,” mused
Sneed, and stared up at the open skylight. “I’m too fat to go
up there. See what you can find.”</p>

<p>There was a chair underneath the square aperture, and Dick,
springing on to it, caught the edge of the skylight and drew
himself up. He was on a level ledge of roof about three feet
wide. A low parapet ran its full length on the one side, whilst
on the other the roof rose steeply to the ridge pole. Dick sent
his light ahead of him and saw two yellow projections overtopping
the parapet.</p>

<p>“A builder’s ladder,” he said, and made his way towards it.</p>

<p>It was easy to see why the ladder had escaped attention when
he made his first superficial survey of the house. At this point
the outside wall of the house was thrown back at a right angle,
and it was in this angle that the ladder had been planted, none
too securely.</p>

<p>“She must have had some sort of outside help,” he said,
returning to his companion to report his find. “It couldn’t
have been the servants, because there are no servants in the
house.”</p>

<p>“Help me up,” said the inspector.</p>

<p>It seemed almost impossible to lift that huge man through
the skylight, but in truth he was as strong as an ox, and to
Dick’s relief the only assistance he needed was approval of his
agility.</p>

<p>“What about friend Cawler?” suggested Sneed, breathing
noisily.</p>

<p>He was peering down at the leaden roof, and suddenly:</p>

<p>“Here are your blood spots,” he said, “and here they are
again on the ladder. That smear is distinct enough.”</p>

<p>Dick Martin turned cold with dread, and the hope that had
suddenly revived in his heart vanished.</p>

<p>“I’ll hold the ladder; get down and see what you can find,”
said Sneed, and braced himself against the parapet, gripping
the top supports, while Dick descended to the dark ground,
stopping now and again to examine the supports.</p>

<p>He found himself in what was evidently the beginning of a
kitchen garden. It was hopeless to look for traces of feet upon
the gravelled pathway, which followed a straight course
through beds of growing vegetables to a small orchard.</p>

<p>“Hold the ladder,” shouted Sneed; “I’ll come down.”</p>

<p>In spite of his anxiety, Martin could not repress a smile at
the courage of the big man. He gripped the ladder whilst
Sneed came down with a surprising agility, and together they
made a brief reconnaissance of the ground.</p>

<p>“They couldn’t have gone towards the house because that
hedge shuts it off. There is only one exit, and that is through
the orchard,” Inspector Sneed scratched his head in perplexity.
“We can’t do any harm following the path to its end.”</p>

<p>They had passed the first vegetable bed and had reached the
beginning of the second.</p>

<p>“I think it wouldn’t be a bad idea——” began Sneed.</p>

<p><i>Bang! Bang!</i></p>

<p>From the darkness ahead of them leapt two pencils of
flame; something whizzed past them with the noise of an
angry wasp.</p>

<p>“Lights out and lie down,” hissed the stout inspector, and
in the fraction of a second they were lying side by side on the
path.</p>

<p>And then, from ahead of them, broke a furious staccato
fusillade of fire. The whine of the bullets seemed continuous.
The smack and rustle of them as they passed through the
foliage or struck against some solid billet was almost continuous.
As suddenly as the shooting began, it ceased. The
two men listened intently. There was no sound, until there
came to Dick’s ears a faint ‘swish! swish!’ as if the coat of
their unknown assailant was brushing the edge of a bush. The
pistol he held in his hand stiffly before him spat twice in the
direction whence the noise had come. There was no other
indication of human presence, no cry or proof of accelerated
movement.</p>

<p>“What have they got there?” whispered Sneed, who was
breathing heavily. “A regiment of soldiers or something?”</p>

<p>“One man with two automatic pistols,” was the answer in
the same tone. “I couldn’t count ’em, but I guess twenty shots
were fired.”</p>

<p>A few more minutes passed, and then:</p>

<p>“We can get up now, I think.”</p>

<p>“I think not,” said Dick.</p>

<p>Dick was already crawling forward on his hands and knees.
It was a painful proceeding; his neck ached, the sharp gravel
cut through the knees of his trousers, and his knuckles were
bleeding—for it is not easy to crawl with a large calibre automatic
in one’s hand. In this fashion he came to the place where
the gravel path ended and the earth track between the trees
began.</p>

<p>He listened for a long time, then stood up.</p>

<p>“It’s all right,” he said.</p>

<p>Hardly were the words out of his mouth when a pistol
exploded almost in his face.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
